Internship Assignment – JavaScript (var, let, const)

Mohammed Iqbal J – Full Stack Developer

1. What is the difference between var, let, and const?
Answer: var is function-scoped, while let and const are block-scoped. const cannot be reassigned.

2. Which keyword allows redeclaration and why?
Answer: var allows redeclaration because it does not follow block scope.

3. Which keyword allows reinitialization?
Answer: var and let allow reinitialization.

4. Which keyword does not allow redeclaration and reinitialization?
Answer: const does not allow redeclaration or reinitialization.

5. Why should const be used for fixed values?
Answer: const prevents accidental reassignment and ensures data safety.

6. What error occurs when redeclaring a let variable?
Answer: SyntaxError: Identifier has already been declared.

7. What error occurs when reassigning a const variable?
Answer: TypeError: Assignment to constant variable.

8. Which keyword is preferred in modern JavaScript and why?
Answer: let and const are preferred for better scope control and fewer bugs.

9. Can const be declared without initialization? Explain.
Answer: No, const must be initialized at the time of declaration.

10. When should var be avoided?
Answer: var should be avoided due to hoisting and scope issues.

11. Predict the output: var a = 10; a = 20; var a = 30; console.log(a);
Answer: Output will be 30.

12. Predict the output: let b = 5; b = 15; console.log(b);
Answer: Output will be 15.

13. Identify the error: let x = 10; let x = 20;
Answer: SyntaxError due to redeclaration of let variable.

14. Identify the error: const y = 50; y = 100;
Answer: TypeError because const variables cannot be reassigned.

15. Write a program using var to show redeclaration.
Answer: var a = 10; var a = 20; console.log(a);

16. Write a program using let to show reinitialization.
Answer: let b = 5; b = 10; console.log(b);

17. Write a program using const and explain why value cannot change.
Answer: const c = 100; // Value cannot change because const prevents reassignment

18. Convert var to let where applicable.
Answer: Use let instead of var for block-scoped variables.

19. Convert var to const where applicable.
Answer: Use const for values that do not change.

20. Write your own example for var, let, and const.
Answer: var a = 1; let b = 2; const c = 3;